.\" 15jul16abu
.\"
.TH PICOLISP 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pil, picolisp \- a fast, lightweight Lisp interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pil
[arguments ...] [-] [arguments ...] [+]
.br
.B picolisp
[arguments ...] [-] [arguments ...] [+]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B PicoLisp
is a Lisp interpreter with a small memory footprint, yet relatively high
execution speed. It combines an elegant and powerful language with built-in
database functionality.
.P
.B pil
is the startup front-end for the interpreter. It takes care of starting the
binary base system and loading a useful runtime environment.
.P
.B picolisp
is just the bare interpreter binary. It is usually called in stand-alone
scripts, using the she-bang notation in the first line, passing the minimal
environment in
.I lib.l
and loading additional files as needed:
.P
.RS
#!/usr/bin/picolisp /usr/lib/picolisp/lib.l
.RE
.RS
(load "@ext.l" "myfiles/lib.l" "myfiles/foo.l")
.RE
.RS
(do ... something ...)
.RE
.RS
(bye)
.RE
.SH INVOCATION
.B PicoLisp
has no pre-defined command line flags; applications are free to define their
own. Any built-in or user-level Lisp function can be invoked from the command
line by prefixing it with a hyphen. Examples for built-in functions useful in
this context are
.B version
(print the version number) or
.B bye
(exit the interpreter). Therefore, a minimal call to print the version number
and then immediately exit the interpreter would be:
.P
.RS
$ pil -version -bye
.RE
.P
Any other argument (not starting with a hyphen) should be the name of a file to
be loaded. If the first character of a path or file name is an at-mark, it
will be substituted with the path to the installation directory.
.P
All arguments are evaluated from left to right, then an interactive
.I read-eval-print
loop is entered (with a colon as prompt).
.P
A single hyphen stops the evaluation of the rest of the command line, so that
the remaining arguments may be processed under program control.
.P
If the very last command line argument is a single plus character, debugging
mode is switched on at interpreter startup, before evaluating any of the command
line arguments. A minimal interactive session is started with:
.P
.RS
$ pil +
.RE
.P
Here you can access the reference manual
.P
.RS
: (doc)
.RE
.P
and the online documentation for most functions,
.P
.RS
: (doc 'vi)
.RE
.P
or directly inspect their sources:
.P
.RS
: (vi 'doc)
.RE
.P
The interpreter can be terminated with
.P
.RS
: (bye)
.RE
.P
or by typing Ctrl-D.
.SH FILES
Runtime files are maintained in the ~/.pil directory:
.IP ~/.pil/tmp/<pid>/
Process-local temporary directories
.IP ~/.pil/history
The line editor's history file
.SH BUGS
.B PicoLisp
doesn't try to protect you from every possible programming error ("You asked for
it, you got it").
.SH AUTHOR
Alexander Burger <abu@software-lab.de>
.SH RESOURCES
.B Home page:
http://home.picolisp.com
.br
.B Download:
http://www.software-lab.de/down.html
